A HISTORY OF COFFEE IN SINGAPORE
The origins of Singaporean coffee culture are complex, and can be traced all over the world, thanks to the island’s rich and unique trade history. As a trade hub and free port in maritime Southeast Asia, Singapore (and its coffee culture) has been influenced by travellers and merchants from around the world for hundreds of years. 

The history of coffee in Singapore traces back to when the first kopitiams were opened in the 19th century by the Chinese. These were established to meet the demand for European immigrants on the island, who needed their caffeine fix to get through the day. 

Kopitiams still exist in Singapore to this day as traditional alternatives to chain coffee shops. The name comes from kopi, Malay for coffee, while tiam is the Hokkien and Fujianese word for shop.

In kopitiams, the coffee served (often robusta) is roasted and with sugar and butter or margarine, to provide a buttery caramel flavour. Many kopitiams also roast their own coffee, using beans imported from countries in Southeast Asia (such as Indonesia).

Kopitiam coffee, known as kopi, is brewed as a concentrated, thick beverage that serves the base of other drinks. When ordering coffee in a kopitiam, you pick from a range of options to add to your kopi, often masking the intense flavour with condensed milk and sugar. Some even claim that there are over 100 different ways to serve a cup of kopi.

Fadhly Effandi is the Head of Specialty at Bero Coffee, a green coffee importer in Singapore. He confirms the importance of this ancient coffee tradition. 

“Traditional ‘kopi’ plays an important role in the historical identity of coffee among Singaporeans,” he says. “I feel that this culture will not disappear anytime soon. 

“The term la kopi comes from a time where a coffee break typically involved a group of friends. They would purposefully head out to a preferred local coffee shop for a cup (or two) of kopi.”

However, he says that this culture of taking a coffee break has helped popularise modern coffee trends. 

“This culture, in turn, fuels the Singaporean specialty coffee industry in a modern context,” Fadhly tells me. “The spirit of taking a coffee break shifts from having a cuppa in a local kopitiam, and becomes inherited by the specialty coffee shop.” 

Today, Singapore plays a key role in the international coffee trade (especially in Asia), and its coffee culture has clearly been influenced by its rich history as a hub of maritime commerce.

Fadhly describes coffee as a “beverage of choice” for Singaporean consumers, and notes that it has “become an important platform for social interactions”.

“It is affordable and accessible,” he adds. “For the typical working adult, which makes up the majority of the population in Singapore, a coffee break in a workday is an activity that you look forward to on a daily basis.” 