SINGAPORE’S GROWING SPECIALTY COFFEE MARKET
Today, Singapore consumes around 15,000 metric tonnes of coffee a year. Divided by its population of 5.7 million, this works out at around 2.6kg per capita.

Victor Mah is the President of the Singapore Coffee Association and the ASEAN Coffee Federation. He explains that coffee consumption has increased notably in the last decade, and says that there has been a growth in specialty coffee, especially in the last three years.

Many of the coffee trends that have come to Singapore have been “imported” by passionate locals or expats who have travelled or lived abroad, where they learned about specialty coffee. 

Over the past ten years, more and more independent specialty coffee roasters and shops have popped up across the island. They are increasingly frequented by younger coffee consumers in search of high-quality coffee made from traceable beans. A strong brand identity is also high on the agenda.

“Consumers are more aware of the passion and craft that goes behind every cup of coffee,” Fadhly tells me. 

He also notes that the pandemic has had an impact, as it has led to more people working from home and “a trend of deeper exploration and appreciation for coffee”.
Marcus Foo is the CEO of PPP Coffee, a specialty coffee roaster based in Singapore. He explains that lighter roasts have become more popular in Singapore over the last few years because more people have started to drink more and more manual brewed filter coffees. He also notes that plant-based milk alternatives, like soy, almond, and oat milk, are also popular.

Marcus adds: “African coffees from Ethiopia and Kenya have always been popular due to their unique floral and fruity characteristics, [and natural processed coffees are getting more popular].”

However, he also acknowledges that coffees grown in Asia have also been getting more attention, especially from countries like Indonesia, Myanmar, Laos, and India. 

Finally, Marcus notes that convenience is a growing priority for coffee consumers across the island. According to him, ready-to-drink (RTD) products like cold brew are becoming more popular, as are drip coffee bags and coffee capsules. He says that some (but not all) of these are prepared with specialty-grade beans.