Like coffee, there are a lot of ways to make espresso, which is a type of coffee drink that uses dark roasted beans and a fine grind. It’s a lot more concentrated than drip coffee and served in a smaller cup.

How it works: Espresso can be made using a manual, semi-automatic, automatic, or super-automatic machine. They all work by heating water and running it through pressed coffee grounds at high pressure.

Manual machines require you to control all the variables, including tamping, creating pressure, and water flow. These are great for expert espresso drinkers who are very particular about their espresso and enjoy doing things from scratch.
Semi-automatic machines control the pressure, but allow you to control how much water you want to use. These are good for coffee drinkers who like strong coffee and want to be able to make both espresso and Americanos.
Automatic machines control the pressure and amount of water. Some have built in coffee grinders. They are perfect for people who'd like to make fuss-free espresso at home.
Super-automatic machines do everything for you; all you have to do is select the type of espresso drink you'd like and the machine will automatically grind the right amount of beans and dispense the drink according to pre-programmed settings, making them great for those who want press-and-go espresso.
Capsule machines make espresso and coffee drinks using pods with pre-measured espresso or coffee grounds. Most capsule machines require you to select the size of the drink you'd like to make, but others, like the Nespresso VirtuoPlus, detect the barcode on the capsule and brew the perfect size automatically. Ideal for people who want to be able to make a consistent cup of espresso or espresso drink with little effort.

A Moka pot is a popular coffee maker that produces a dark brew that's comparable to espresso, but, according to the Italian Espresso National Institute, doesn’t qualify as espresso because it doesn’t use the required nine bars of pressure. It still produces a very dark cup of coffee, however, and can be used as a solid base for cappuccinos and lattes.

How it works: Water is added to the bottom container, and fine grounds are added to the filter located at the top. The heat generates steam, which creates pressure, causing the water on the bottom to flow through the beans and brew into the top compartment.

Who it's best for: Espresso lovers who like a deep, dark cup of coffee.

Some drip coffee makers feature a grinder that can grind coffee beans immediately before brewing. Many people like this style of brewing because it ensures the freshest-tasting coffee.

How it works: Select the amount of coffee you'd like to brew and watch the machine automatically grind the corresponding amount of beans into the brew basket. As with regular coffee grinders, some grind and brews have blade grinders and some have burr grinders.
Blade grinders have a single blade that grind beans like a food processor by chopping them.
Burr grinders are made up of two pieces of hard material that grind the beans as they pass in between the two; they allow for more precision and consistency.

Who it's best for: Grind and brews are appealing to drip coffee drinkers who like to grind their coffee at home and simplify the process.