A French Press works by gently steeping coffee grounds in just-boiled water to make a full-bodied cup of coffee. The longer you steep the coffee, the stronger the flavor, although four minutes is the recommended amount of time.

How it works: Combine coarse to medium-ground coffee with just-boiled water, and add the lid to the carafe so it can steep. After a few minutes, slowly push down the plunger (equipped with a fine-mesh filter) to move the grounds to the bottom of the carafe.

Who it's best for: Coffee aficionados who love the taste of full-bodied coffee or want to bring out the flavor of high-quality coffee.

This coffee maker has more than 5,000 positive reviews on Amazon. People love that it's quick and easy to clean, especially in comparison to French presses, which work similarly. In addition to making espresso and Americanos, the AeroPress can also make cold brew coffee by allowing the grounds to steep for one minute instead of 10 seconds.

How it works: Add one rounded tablespoon of finely ground coffee to the base for every espresso-sized shot you'd like to make. Heat water to 170ºF; use it to fill the base up to desired cup marking. Place the filter in the cap, screw it onto the base, and then place the base over a mug. Stir coffee grounds for ten second and then use included plunger to carefully push water down, through the grounds, into the mug.

Who it's best for: Strong coffee lovers who are looking for a quick and easy way to make one cup at a time.

Traditional iced coffee is made by pouring already brewed coffee over ice, but the cold brew method does not use any heat, which results in a rich and full-bodied brew. There are many ways to make cold brew, including steeping it in a large container.

How it works: Cold brew coffee is made by steeping coarsely ground coffee beans in room temperature or cold water overnight. The brewed coffee is then dispensed into another container for servings. It can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 14 days, and, in addition to being served over ice, can be used as a concentrate to make hot coffee.

Who it's best for: Those who like a fuller, deeper, more flavorful cup of coffee – cold or hot.