Drip coffee makers are an easy, familiar way to make coffee. They can brew a single cup of coffee or up to 14. Some drip coffee makers feature an additional brewing system such as a hot water dispenser or a single-serve brewer that is compatible with K-cups for more versatility.

How it works: Cold water is added the reservoir, and ground coffee is added to a filter. Water heats up and passes through the beans through what looks like a shower head. Brewed coffee is then dispensed into a glass carafe that sits atop a hot plate, which keeps the coffee warm.

Who it's best for: Traditionalists, families, entertaining.

Don't want your coffee to burn? Some people like thermal carafes to preserve the temperature of the coffee without overheating it on a hot plate. Instead of resting on a heating element, coffee is brewed into an insulated carafe that is typically vacuum sealed. A good thermal carafe is designed to keep coffee hot for hours.

Brewing coffee using a pour over is one of the more gentle brewing methods. Pour-overs can be used over a single mug or larger carafe to make a full-bodied cup of coffee.

How it works: Medium-coarse grounds are placed in a cone shaped funnel with a filter. Hot water is added to the grounds in batches; the first time to “bloom” the coffee grounds, and the second time to fully brew them. As the water filters through the grounds, it empties into a single cup or carafe, resulting in a rich, full-bodied cup of coffee.

Who it's best for: Single-cup coffee lovers.

Keurig was amongst the first brands to introduce capsule machines, which have changed the way traditional drip coffee is made: A fresh cup of coffee at the touch of a button. Most have water reservoirs so you don't have to fill your coffeemaker with water every time and come in a wide variety of styles, from just one coffee cup size to a wide range that can accommodate a large to-go cup.

How it works: Using the same method as drip coffee but on a smaller scale, these machines use pre-ground and measured pods to deliver a consistent cup of coffee every time. A pre-set amount of hot water runs through the grounds directly into your mug. The filter is located in the pod so you don’t have to worry about emptying the grinds — just toss the pods in the trash.